I looked through my assembler code.
Most of it is not very understandable to me.
Well, I do not remember all the details about the ELF format.
I found some resources that might help me with this.
I am honestly unsure of what directives and such I want to implement and how.
I had been thinking I was going to parse the file in a top-down manner.
I still think I will do that.
However, I do not think I will do it in the same way I planned to previously.
I had conceived of parsing sections and inside of...

I lost my train of thought there.
Anyways, I read and thought more about representing local labels and local variables.
I will not worry about representing local variables (variables whose scope is
    constrained to its surrounding function) with symbols.
I noticed that gcc does not seem to create meaningful labels for local variables,
    anyways.

I believe that the next thing for me to investigate is relocation.
Specifically, I need to learn more about assembling instructions that use symbols as
    their operands.
I am reading about relocation tables and relocation entries.
It seems that there are two main types of relocation entries.
Some relocation entries store offsets from symbol locations in the relocation destination
    (i.e. the bits in an instruction which will be replaced by an address relative to a
    symbol's address, once resolved), rather than as part of the relocation entry itself.
Others store this information as part of the relocation entry itself.

I have found a github repo named riscv-elf-psabi-doc.
It has a bunch of info specifying information outside the scope of the RISC-V ISA spec.
This includes calling conventions and a spec for creating/using the ELF.
I think I will follow the documents in this repository, but cautiously and selectively.
I do not want to waste a bunch of my time implementing a bunch of stuff I don't need.
I should remember that I am just writing the assembler right now, and a lot of the
    work involved in getting position independent code to run is being deferred until I
    write a linker and/or loader.
When assembling code, I will just have to worry about parsing things correctly and
    filling the different ELF sections with the appropriate data and metadata.
I say that partly as a comfort to myself, as there are a lot of relocation types.
I mean, there are at least 50 that I counted.
I doubt I will use most of those.
I mean, to support all of those would probably mean supporting a lot of syntax.
That's very unappealing to me.
Honestly, I think I want to be able to load the address of a variable into a register.
I also want to be able to jump execution to a label's address.
I want the assembly programmer or compiler to handle register use, not the assembler.
By that, I mean that I don't want the assembler (or any process downstream) to
    generate machine code which implicitly moves values into registers or main memory,
    when performing relocation.
I would also like to avoid using relocation types which add additional instructions.
This will force me to update relocation entries.
However, that would not be the end of the world.
Well, I might be able to avoid adding new instructions.
Eh, I am not sure.
I think it makes sense for me to be able to address the upper 20 bits of a symbol's
    address (for use with upper immediate instructions) and the lower 12 bits (for
    immediate instructions).
That way, I could use labels in any instruction I want.
If I want to exectue an instruction with the upper 20 bits, I could use those bits.
If I want to execute an instruction with the lower 12 bits, I could use those bits.
If I want to use the entire 32-bit address as the operand of an instruction, I would
    need to store the entire 32-bit address in a register, first.
I could save the upper and lower bits in a register together, then use that register as
    an operand of the instruction I wanted to execute.
That's what a relocation would have to do, anyways, as far as I understand.

I want to determine the relocation types I will support.
I suppose it will be subject to change.

I am wondering if I should write a minimal assembler and modify it, as needed, like what
    I am doing with the compiler.
As I add functionality for the compiler, I can add functionality for the assembler.
I might add some basic functionality for the bootrom, which I have not written yet.
I might wait until I have a particular piece of hardware to work with before writing a
    bootrom program.
I reread the README.md file.
It does not say anything about ELF files in section 3.
I might simply interpret "binary files" as the lower contents of memory.
To elaborate on that, I might just translate directives for data placement, assembly
    instructions for code placement, and connect symbols in some ad hoc way, not
    in accordance with the ELF format.
In some sense, that might be even more of a hack than my previous implementation.
However, I will not have to worry about much syntax, and the computation will have a
    simpler state, just a symbol table where symbols point to locations in the file,
    and bytes in the file would correspond to addresses in memory, 1 to 1.
I like this idea.
I can focus on parsing better than I could have when I wrote my first implementation.
Then, I can worry about handling more complicated state for creating ELF object files.
I am not sure how I will make programs end.
That is not the assembler's problem per se.
I guess I could just have stuff run in an infinite loop.
That would be preferable over letting the program counter continue incrementing into the
    data "segment" (in quotes because there are no segments in the base ISA).
I like this idea of outputting raw "binary files" for the time being.
I am wondering if I should even require sections in the assembly.
I don't think it makes sense to enforce that kind of thing.
That sounds unnecessary for the time being.
I figure I will just implement instruction translation, one or two ways to add data to
    the file, and likely support for comments.
I might force comments to be on their own line for the sake of simplifying parsing.
I think I will parse the input files into a list of assembly directives and instructions.
I broke ground.
I did some basic preprocessing for each line, removing leaading spaces.
I want to parse one of the directives.
I guess I have not thought much about how I will parse alternatives.
In Haskell, I used the <|> alternative operator, and it was all dandy.
In Python land, I don't want to do a bunch of string processing in order to handle
    alternatives.
I think I will get over it, for now.
I am creating an AST for the assembly parsing and manipulation.
Well, it might technically be a parse tree, but oh well.
I am defining classes for alternatives.
My parsing code is starting to mimic the parsing code I wrote for the compiler.
I think I am going to ignore labels for the time being.
I will go back and implement support for labels and a symbol table and all that jazz.
Well, then, what do I need to do next?
Well, I think I can parse both int directives and string directives, just not with labels.
I should probably test that out by importing the module I am writing.
Back on the topic of nasty string processing, I found there is a flag re.VERBOSE which
    enables writing cleaner looking regular expressions.
I am not using it yet, but I might in a bit.
I am still implementing the IntDirective class.
Well, I might just need to test it.
I just remembered that I am not yet trying to handle symbol resolution.
That makes this so much easier!
I think I have directives working properly, both int and string directives.
That means the assembler is supports functionality than the compiler, currently.
The compiler can only handle a single int declaration, I believe.
I don't think it can even assign a value.
I just double checked the minimal pipeline test input.
I was correct.
The compiler will only compile a simple int, but not even give it a value explicitly.
Well, I suppose the compiler allows symbols.
The assembler currently does not.
I think I will commit what I have created so far.
I realized that the assembler does not yet read input and write output from any
    file-like object.
I will write a main function and have it read from standard input and write to standard
    output.
That is not what a normal assembler does by default, but that is fine.
I think I've got that done, though I admit it's not a fun interface to play with from
    my shell.
It's more convenient to use the sample code by importing the module with the interpreter.
Anyways, I think that is in a good spot.
I am looking to commit.
