I have already done a lot of cleanup in the past (though the code in this repository is a bit messy).
All of the notes for my prior cleanup changes are either elsewhere or non-existent.
I think I am going to resolve all of the -Wcompat-unqualified-imports warnings.
I think I am going to make all of the imports explicit, rather than making the each of those modules qualified.
That might not be possible in all cases, though.
I can make import modules as qualified, if I really need to.
There are 7 of those warnings currently.
They are all for Data.List imports.
I just noticed some -Wname-shadowing warnings as I was rebuilding the code after resolving some of the -Wcompat-unqualified-imports warnings.
I think I want to resolve those warnings, too.
In some of the modules, I can simply remove the Data.List import.
I might have to rewrite code to import Data.List in the future.
It could be the case that some of its items are reexported by other modules.
I have resolved all of the -Wcompat-unqualified-imports warnings.
I am going to commit now.
Actually, you know what, I need to test that I did not break the code.
The serializedAssembly in Main still looks good.
I will commit.

Now, I want to resolve all of the -Wname-shadowing warnings.
There are 11 of those warnings for me to resolve.
I simply added a prime character (single quote) at the end of one of the variable names (a local).
I renamed some other variables.
I deleted several of the unused top level names in the Main module.
I had been using them for debugging purposes, but I think I can manage.
Each of those symbols is essentially duplicated inside the main definition.
I am going to try to commit now.
I just tested everything with stack run.
It looks good.

I would like to remove all of the -Wredundant-constraints warnings.
There are only 3.
They are all in the CustomCombinators module.
I resolved all of those warnings.
I am going to test now and hopefully commit afterwards.
Everything seemed to work.
I am going to commit.

Cleaning up warnings is becoming progressively trivial.
There are some other cleanups that I could do, and some of them would be much more valuable than what I have done already, but they would probably take significantly more time.
