At this point in time, I am going to try to write a framework for generating tests for the compiler.
I want to create a framework for creating and managing data driven tests.
I am not sure how I will store test data.
I could potentially simply write code that would generate Haskell source files with tests in them.
I expect that I will wind up using the Read type class to deserialize stored Haskell data.
I will have to add Read to the list of type classes that are derived by many of the data types that I define.
That is okay.
I will obviously use the Show typeclass to serialize data for storage.
If I make every data type I use implement Show and Read by derivation, I believe that the show and read methods will be inverses of one another.
I wonder if I can add a quickcheck test for that.
I read some of tasty's documentation.
I think I am going to try to construct a TestTree using inputs and desired outputs of the compiler.
I was initially imagining writing code to generate tests.
I would like to get to a point where I can do that.
I think it is wisest if I write one manually first.
At this point in time, I only need one, a single test to ensure that the minimal pipeline works.
I will make sure that I can write a test.
Then I will start parameterizing shit and figure out how I will store and possibly update test data.
I have thought about using git as my database, but I think working out the details of that is looking too far into the future.
I have a single test for the minimal pipeline working.
I think I am going to commit now.

Okay, I am back.
Wow, I am glad to have found the notes above.
I have a manually created test.
Now that I have successfully created a test manually, I will try to automate that process.
Well, I will at least look for a simple workflow for creating tests.
That is my end goal.
I want to create tests quickly and easily, and I want to be able to manage those tests easily.
Where do I begin?
I am not sure how I would like to store the tests.
If I store the tests as C files and assembly files, then it will be easy to read through them,
    as long as the directory structure clusters files together thoughtfully.
If I stored tests as Haskell files, reading the inputs and outputs of tests would be difficult.
Having the tests written as Haskell code could enable certain code analysis from various tools,
    and there would be little room for issues stemming from failed IO operations.
That seems like a negligible upside for storing tests as Haskell files.
I also think that storing tests in a more sophisticated database, whether SQL or NoSQL,
    would make reading the files less convenient.
I feel pretty confident that storing the tests as C files and assembly files is the best option.
Okay, that means I need to determine the directory structure for the tests.
I think it will be fine to have a directory for the test data.
Maybe I would name it "test_data".
That directory would have subdirectories, one subdirectory per test.
I will call each of those subdirectories a "test directory", not to be confused with THE test
    directory which holds the test code (Haskell) and in which I will store the test_data directory.
So, each test directory will have a C source file, the input file, and an assembly file,
    the expected output file.
Therefore, when automatically generating a new test, I will create a new test directory (which will
    require a prompting for a test name), and I will write the C code to a file, and using the
    compiler, I will write the expected output to an assembly file.
I had been planning on having the application prompt the user for a test name, and I figured the
    C source code would be passed through standard input to the application.
However, I think it would be easier to manually create a test directory, manually create a C
    source file, then run a piece of code which would generate the expected output file using the
    compiler.
Given that my compiler does not currently support directives, what I have been calling a C source
    file would have to be limited to a translation unit.
Oh, on the piece of code which would generate the expected output using the compiler, I think
    I could write code which could create or update tests (possibly interactively, prompting the
    user for a yes/no before creating or updating the expected output of a test)
Since the term, "test directory", is overloaded, I will now call each of the directories holding a
    single input file and an expected output file by a different name.
I will call those directories "test case directories".
I like that name.
So, I guess I would have a command line flag for stack test.
If that flag was turned on, I would update the expected output for each data driven test case,
    possibly interactively.
I would like to run stack test and have it search through the test_data directory for test cases.

All right, well, I think I have done some file operations before in Haskell.
Yes, I have at least used readFile and writeFile in this project.
I shouldn't need to add any dependencies to the test package because those basic IO operations should be in the base library.
Okay, so what is this code going to look like?
Well, I think I will create a Main.hs file in the test directory.
It will utilize the test in the MinimalPipeline module.
I think I will have another module specifically for running data driven tests.
I guess I could name that module DataDrivenTests.
I might just name it DataDriven, especially given the MinimalPipeline module does not have the word
    "Test" in its name.
Yeah, I am going with DataDriven for now.
I do not remember all of the stuff about test trees and such from tasty, but I can hopefully figure that out.
If the test trees are not wrapped in the IO monad somehow, then I can grab all of the test data,
    then build the test trees by passing the test data as parameters to some function.
I will update the package/project files after writing some code, I think.
Oh, it looks like I will need the directory package as a dependency.
I wish there was a version of the listDirectory action in System.Directory which listed absolute
    paths.
I wish there was more support for file path operations in general.
